# Soillense: Redefining Subsurface Data Utilization for Smarter Infrastructure Design

This repository is part of a graduate project by UMSI students in collaboration with client MPERA.

## Project Overview

This project aims to build a model and customer platform that learn from known borehole data to give layer predictions of other places. This repository only contains the necessary code, euch as the model training, plot drawing for final report, etc.

## Code Structure

Code is in `src/`

The following python scripts are used to preprocess the data:

- `cleanup_preprocess_USCSoriginal.py`: Cleans the original USCS classification data.
- `cleanup_preprocess_USCSreprediction.py`: Re-generates USCS values based on description and lithology.
- `cleanup_preprocess_layersampling.py`: Transforms the original data into samplings across borehole depths to ease the model training.
- `sptn.py`: Merges the SPT-N data with the USCS data and generates complete borehole data.
- `density_consistency.py`: Adds soil density/consistency features derived from USCS and SPT-N values.
- `kmz.py`: Converts the borehole data into a KMZ file for visualization in Google Earth.
  
The following `ipynb` are used to train and predict

- `model_cluster.ipynb`
- `model.ipynb`

## Run

For `model_cluster.ipynb`, go to your desired block, and run with jupyter notebook interpreters.

## Data Source and Ownership

The data used in this project is owned by MPERA. The original data source is the Washington Geological Information Portal, a publicly available geologic information resource.

<!-- Processed datasets are not directly included but can all be generated by the included code. -->
